---
layout: resume
title: Agile Development Process 
subtitle: What I know
---

# Introduction

This page contains information about my knowledge of the [Agile Development
Process](https://www.agilealliance.org/){:target="_blank"}.  While this process encompasses a wide range of concepts, I
will just list what I have learned along the way and what and how I have applied these techniques within a working
environment.

# eXtreme Programming and other Agile Methodologies

My experience with the Agile Development Process started when I heard about eXtreme Programming,(XP), from Kent Beck.
This lead me to his seminal book [Extreme Programming
Explained](https://www.amazon.com/Extreme-Programming-Explained-Embrace-Change-ebook/dp/B00N1ZN6C0/){:target="_blank"}
that I read which sparked a curiousity that hasn't abated since then.  After reading this first book, I searched for
other books with similar themes.  This effort lead me to other authors like Martin Roberts, Mary and Tom Poppendick,
Martin Fowler, Alistair Cockburn and many others.  I became enamored with anything and everything related to agile
development.

I have then read about the different concepts from using TDD, pair programming, FDD, Scrum, Lean Software Development,
and many other ideas.  I have then taken this knowledge and applied it within a working environment as much as
possilble.  For instance, I have applied the concept of pair programming as a mentoring and learning process throughout
me career.  This has also lead me to use the same concept when implementing a new design by discussing this with a
fellow colleague.  While I have advocated the concept of TDD by creating software that can be tested in a standalone
matter.  I've been on teams that have used some of the concepts of Scrum like performing standup meetings and
retrospectives.  There are also other techniques that I have integrated within my development process that was not 
dependent on anyone.  I have been using the Refactoring process extensively to help me improve the product that I am
working on.  The use of this process provided the required steps to generate confidence in me and management that my
changes are solid.  This was done by creating tests for all of the different features that are being refractored with
the current code.  Then I would go ahead and refractor the code and insure that the code pass all of the tests that
were created for the original code.  This is how I have used this technique to be able to improve a product code base.

{% comment %}

List of agile techniques that I used within a working environment:

	- standup meetings
	- pair programming
	- TDD
	- retrospectives

The following are a list of agile techniques that I have read about:

	- XP Programming
	- FDD
	- TDD


{% endcomment %}

{% comment %}
Local Variables:
backup-inhibited: t
End:
{% endcomment %}
